Skip to content


Register

Sign In
Home
News
Sport
Business
Technology
Health
Culture
Arts
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live

UK borrowing costs hit highest level since 2008 financial crisis
12 hours ago

Share

Save
Mitchell Labiak
Business reporter
Getty Images People carrying shopping bags and walking through a shopping street in Shrewsbury  on a sunny spring dayGetty Images
The UK's borrowing costs have hit their highest level since the 2008 financial crisis as the energy price surge sparked by the US-Israel war with Iran has raised fears over the state of the public finances.

The benchmark rate for government's long-term borrowing costs has climbed above 5%.

The government debt sell-off is due to concerns about higher interest rates, sticky inflation, the potential public cost of helping households with energy bills, experts say.

Danni Hewson, AJ Bell's head of financial analysis, said the Treasury was "stuck between a rock and hard place" managing these issues, but the Conservatives said Labour had made "irresponsible choices".


The government's 10-year borrowing rate, known as the yield, reached its 18-year-high on the same day official data revealed UK borrowing rose to £14.3bn in February to the second highest level for that month since records began.

A line chart titled ‘UK government borrowing costs hit highest level since 2008', showing the yield on 10-year UK government bonds, from 2006 to 2026. The yield is around 4% at the start of 2006. That rises to a peak of 5.46% in June 2007, hits a low of 0.10% in July 2020, before rising to 4.94% by 20 March 2026. The source is Bloomberg.

The Office for National Statistics said borrowing was £2.2bn higher than in February last year and much higher than the £8.8bn economists had expected it to be.

An increase in government tax receipts was outweighed by a rise in spending and the timing of government debt interest payments, it added.

However, across the 11 months of the financial year to February, government borrowing was down.

Economists said the unexpected rise in UK borrowing and higher government debt costs means government help with energy bills - which are predicted to rise due to the Iran war - is now less likely.

Ruth Gregory, deputy chief UK economist, at Capital Economics said: "We doubt there is scope for a large-scale fiscal support package like that seen in 2022, even in more extreme scenarios in which the conflict in the Middle East escalates further."

She added that any monetary assistance the government does offer to households and businesses will likely be less than in 2022 because of its "worse fiscal position".

Charlie Bean, former deputy governor of the Bank of England, told the BBC the government "doesn't have the room for manoeuvrability" it had in 2022 after the energy price shock following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Danni Hewson, AJ Bell's head of financial analysis, said: "With the chancellor under pressure to act swiftly to protect households from the impact of the latest energy price shock, today's numbers won't make great reading."

Typical annual household energy bills could go up by £332 in July, according to the latest data from consultancy Cornwall Insight, but the figure is likely to change.

Chief Secretary to the Treasury James Murray said the government had the "right economic plan" and added "we are better prepared for a more volatile world".

Shadow chancellor Sir Mel Stride said Labour was "saddling the next generation with the cost of their failure to live within our means".

A bar chart titled 'Government borrowing rose in February', showing the UK's public sector net borrowing, excluding public sector banks, from February 2024 to 2026. In February 2024, public sector net borrowing stood at £11.4 billion. That rose to £12.1 billion in February 2025, and again to £14.3 billion in February 2026.
Nabil Taleb, economist at PwC UK, said the increase in government borrowing for February "partly reflects the timing of payments, with some interest due at the end of January falling into February because of the intervening weekend".

The leap to the second highest borrowing for February on record, a number not adjusted for inflation, is a sharp change from the record surplus in January.

Lindsay James, investment strategist at Quilter, said there were some "glimmers of hope that government borrowing was beginning to be reined in as tax rises helped to create the largest January surplus on record".

"The latest data out this morning, however, has put a swift end to that picture," she added.

James said the about-turn in public sector finances was "largely due to record levels of interest payable, highlighting the sheer scale of debt interest the government is now facing".

Around £1 in every £10 is still currently spent on debt interest, which ministers said needed to be addressed so more could be spent on policing, schools and the NHS.

The ONS provisionally estimated the amount of government debt to be at 93.1% of the size of the UK economy at the end of February 2026, which means it remains at levels last seen in the early 1960s.

Thin, red banner promoting the Politics Essential newsletter with text saying, “Top political analysis in your inbox every day”. There is also an image of the Houses of Parliament.
Sign up for our Politics Essential newsletter to keep up with the inner workings of Westminster and beyond.

Companies
Inflation
UK economy
UK government spending
Related
Home working, long leases and rise of parking apps - what went wrong for NCP
Trump-backed television merger moves forward
UK sets target to boost steel making and cut imports
More from the BBC
15 hrs ago
Young woman with red hair, wearing beige jumper holds smartphone in one hand and household bills in the other 
How the Iran war may affect your money and bills
The conflict in the Middle East has increased pressure on the cost of petrol, household energy bills and even food.

20 hrs ago
Green Party of England and Wales leader Zack Polanski speaking in the Political Thinking studio. He is wearing a black suit jacket and a white shirt with an open neck. 
I want to hold balance of power at next general election, says Zack Polanski
Green Party leader says thought of becoming PM is 'on his mind' and the aim of 30-40 MPs now feels "under ambitious".

1 day ago
A montage image of Rejoin voters and Sir John Curtice to the right
Sir John Curtice: Why Labour's Brexit focus has shifted from Leavers to Remainers
Will the pursuit of a closer relationship with the EU risk courting electoral disaster by alienating Brexit-backing voters?

1 day ago
A young man and woman stand alongside each other looking at an estate agents' window.
Faisal Islam: Iran war is having a dramatic effect on the UK economy
The knock-on effects of the war in the Gulf go beyond a hold on interest rates and are set to reverberate for months.

2 days ago
A woman wearing a grey hard hat and hi vis writes on a plan while on the phone with her laptop open next to her with a buolding site in the background
Pay grows at slowest rate in more than five years
Annual earnings grew at an annual rate of 3.8% in the November to January period, the Office for National Statistics says.

Home
News
Sport
Business
Technology
Health
Culture
Arts
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live
Weather
BBC Shop
BritBox
BBC in other languages
Follow BBC on:






Terms of Use
Subscription Terms
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Contact the BBC
Advertise with us
Do not share or sell my info
BBC.com Help & FAQs
Content Index
Set Preferred Source
Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.

 

